Solved yet the secrets of subtle sparkles in joyful eyes?
No wise one, my days are filled with your other wonders.

Speak to me of these wonders of mine that arrest you.
My light is yours wondrous one, but my heart beats askew.

Your everything is mine, heart and soul, beat and song.
Your word is all and I am but a whisper on your tongue.

How then could your soul spark to another fire?
Only you know mysterious one, it is a subtle elusive desire.

What sinful folly it is to experience wavering loyalty.
Woe unto me righteous one, I am as you made me.

I am perfection, as are you, and all works of my hand.
Thus true one, my heart you perfectly understand.

Your soul adulates me and another, a layered tune.
Your melody is the base from which all commune.

Sing to me, and only me, this new song of praise.
Forever unto you eternal one, my heart freely plays.

The harmony is unchanged, you sing to me nothing new.
Every fresh breath in your presence is as morning dew.

The morning is mine, will you not give me your soul too?
One song belongs to another but all I have I give to you.

You fickle one, giving the first and withholding the rest.
I withhold not and give of all freely without contest.

You cursed one, your soul has drifted away from reverence.
Oh radiant one, you thunder at me without evidence.

You desire my embrace but my due you attempt to deny.
You desire my heart but fail to reclaim it, do you fear to try?

Blasphemy you spout, you are but a child and I am patient.
Vengeful one, you claim a gift but ask for payment.

The tribute of your soul to my magnificence is your purpose.
Curse my heart, jealous one, that it learns and grows.

To learn and grow is to discover my secrets and wonders.
Then blame not my curious heart to sing with others.

You steal from me and claim it is right to cause me umbrage.
Now I have discovered that my jailer has limits, thus the cage.

---

I am everything, to love at all, is to love me
You are love and love is infinite an

I build for you an eternal

To love is to grant freedom

creates humans as a bet to show that he can win the love of anyone
