Guilt

Is guilt generational?
Do we inherit it?
If all the words were gone
Do our children remember it?
Are they bound to repeat it?

Adamu's oldest friend is Gudu
He has known him as long as he can remember
All their happiest memories intrinsically linked
His happiest is when Gudu introduced him
To the love of his life, his wife, Evara.

Now Adamu is angry, his guilt morphing to rage
Evara, has irrecovably damaged the bond with Gudu
Over a stupid rebellion, and he, fool that he is
He had listened to her, uncaring of the hurt to be caused
Now they had to leave their home

"Why did you not call to me when you met Sanu" - Adamu
"Must I call to you about every new thing I see" - Evara
"Yes! Everything here was new to you at some point" - Adamu
"Everything everywhere is new to babe, what is your point?" - Evara
"Argh woman! He was a stranger!! We should have met him together!" - Adamu
"What strangeness, he said he was Gudu's friend" - Evara
"I know Gudu, I know his friends, Sanu is not one of them" - Adam
"Well he knew you and knew more than you. Just Like Gudu!" - Evara

Evara is angry, her guilt morphing to bitterness
All she did make a new friend, try a new thing
Something to beautiful in the moment, turned to ash
Adamu had not minded when the idea was introduced and now...
Because of Gudu, they were wrong?

So what Adamu and his friend had agreed before they had known her
Was she to be bound by their understanding never searching?
And Adamu fool that he just accepts to leave all they have known?
First he does not prevent her from this apparently gross error
And after participating then places the fault on her shoulders

As they leave their village, Adamu driven by anger, heart full of hurt
He rants at Evara, how does she not still understand the betrayal, maybe she does
He curses Sanu, damning the night he was made, and oh so secretly, so quietly
He fumes, for why would Gudu not tell him about Sanu, Sanu with his confident claims
Why would Gudu hide so much from him and then banish him in ignorance

As they leave their village, Evara driven by shame, heart full of blame
She looks back at the only home they have known, tears salting the earth
She resolves not to be with a weak man, He must learn to fight for his right
Adamu is eager to kill Sanu, ready to argue her, he must battle Gudu too
Because they will take back their home, even if they have to storm the gates

Sanu is bound to help, it was his fault they are in this predicament
Sanu made big of his knowledge, of Gudu, his friends, his works
They will use all tools at their disposal, whether Adamu knows it or not
Should they suffer forever from a simple error? It is love that drives Evara to this
Her love of Adamu and everything they have made together
